docs: refactor CMC and local CMC specs (#166)
awslabs/aws-encryption-sdk-specification: changes/2020-07-14_refactor-cmc-spec/change.md

provide a local CMC implementation.
This does not require any up-front effort
to add to existing AWS Encryption SDK implementations,
but helps ensure that AWS Encryption SDK users
can easily get started with the caching CMM
without having to separately obtain a CMC implementation.

### Bounding Space Usage and Entry Lifetime

Unbounded caches are bad in general,
but ones that hold cryptographic materials are especially dangerous.
In order to ensure that memory usage of the local CMC does not grow without bound,
this change specifies that the local CMC
MUST set an _entry capacity_ that it will enforce throughout its lifetime.
We mandate that the user provide the entry capacity upon initialization of the local CMC instance,
so that the user makes a conscious decision
about the amount of memory they are willing to allocate for cache entries.

We also mandate that the local CMC must accept any non-negative value
(up to an implementation-defined limit),
so that in addition to typical use cases (for entry capacity at least 2),
a user can simulate a null cache (by using entry capacity 0)
or a "debouncing" cache (by using entry capacity 1).

> (By "debouncing" cache,
> we mean one that caches materials
> upon consecutive cache requests for those materials.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By "debouncing" cache,
we mean one that caches materials
upon consecutive cache requests for those materials.
```

Although these are not necessarily common use cases,
they are natural generalizations of the local CMC,

> and so without evidence to the contrary
> we have decided that it is worth supporting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and so without evidence to the contrary,
we have decided that they are worth supporting.
```

Because the null cache is a special case of the local CMC as defined above,
it is also unnecessary to individually specify the null CMC as its own entity,
which in turn reduces specification and implementation effort.

Continuing with the theme of avoiding unbounded caches,
we note that it is dangerous for cryptographic materials to remain in the cache
for longer than necessary,
since doing so increases the temporal attack surface.
This change therefore mandates that

> the local CMC associate a time-to-live (TTL) control to each cache entry,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the local CMC associates a time-to-live (TTL) control to each cache entry,
```

and never returns a cache entry that is _expired_ with respect to its TTL value
(via a Get Cache Entry operation).
Existing local CMC implementations already implement this.

It is unlikely that any default TTL value can prove sane for most customer use cases.
Furthermore, we make the simplifying assumption that the caching CMM is the only user of the local CMC,
and the caching CMM MUST be configured with a TTL value.
So this change mandates that the user (i.e., the caching CMM)
MUST provide a cache entry's TTL value in the corresponding Put Cache Entry call.

### Eviction

With the above rules in place to dictate how long and in what quantity
the local CMC can retain cache entries,
we turn our attention to when and how the local CMC evicts entries.

This change mandates that the local CMC evicts some TTL-expired entries
on every Get Cache Entry and Put Cache Entry operation,

> and also that the it evicts any additional entries as necessary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and also that it evicts any additional entries as necessary
```

to not exceed the entry capacity
on every Put Cache Entry operation.
This "lazy eviction" is sufficient to ensure that the local CMC
neither returns TTL-expired entries
nor exceeds the entry capacity.

The change also recommends that the local CMC evict TTL-expired entries on a periodic basis,
if the implementation's programming language and runtime make doing so feasible.
By doing so,
the local CMC ensures that no entry lives for more than a constant amount of time past its TTL;
without periodic eviction,
a TTL-expired entry could remain in the cache indefinitely
if no user makes any Get Cache Entry or Put Cache Entry call
after the entry enters the cache.

> The change does not mandate period eviction because

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The change does not mandate periodic eviction because
```

> concurrency is complex to implement in some programming languages and runtimes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
concurrency is complex to implement.
```

evicts entries in least recently used (LRU) order.
Prior to this change,
the specification already stated
that the local CMC is a least recently used LRU cache.
Since LRU eviction is a sane default strategy for many use cases,
and since LRU cache implementations exist in most mainstream programming language ecosystems,
this change continues to mandate that the local CMC uses LRU eviction.

This change specifies that during an eviction opportunity,
the local CMC first checks a fixed number of entries from the tail of the LRU cache
and evicts any TTL-expired entries,
and then evicts as many entries from the tail as is necessary to not exceed the entry capacity.
Limiting the number of entries checked helps to avoid latency spikes
in the case that many entries expire around the same time.

## Drawbacks

Mandating that the local CMC support entry capacity values of 0 and 1,
may result in edge cases in LRU removal logic
(as hinted in the [C implementation](https://github.com/aws/aws-encryption-sdk-c/blob/aa85ca224d550cfe110e2112821a84506b9aca3e/source/local_cache.c#L924)).
However, we believe that the functional benefits
outweigh the complexity of the edge cases.

> By allowing the local CMC not to periodically evict TTL-expired entries,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By not requiring the local CMC to periodically evict TTL-expired entries,
```

Reviewer: I'm not super opinionated on either point. I can see what you're saying though, so totally up to you.

Author: Gotcha, going to resolve this then.

a scenario can arise in which
an expired cache entry remains in the cache indefinitely
because the cache is untouched after the entry enters.
The specification represents a best-effort attempt to avoid retaining cache entries for long periods of time,
and since this case is a relatively uncommon usage pattern,
we are willing to accept this weakness.

## Security Implications

This change SHOULD NOT have any security implications.

## Operational Implications

This change will break any customer

> who relies on the local CMC behavior in the AWS Encryption SDK for C that,
> if the customer attempt to set an entry capacity of less than 2,
> instead sets the entry capacity to 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
who relies on the local CMC behavior in the AWS Encryption SDK for C,
if the customer attempt to set an entry capacity not equal to 2.
```
?

Reviewer: What about just...

"who relies on the local CMC behavior in the AWS Encryption SDK for C
if the customer attempt to set an entry capacity less than 2"

?

## Guide-level Explanation

The AWS Encryption SDK provides a build-in local Cryptographic Materials Cache (local CMC),
which implements the CMC interface.
The local CMC is an in-memory, least recently used (LRU) cache.

> It provides non-blocking, locking, cache entries per cache identifier.

Reviewer: Bit confused here. Are they non-blocking or are they locking?

Author: They are both. Each entry is guarded by a lock, but if an actor attempts to acquire a locked entry, the attempt immediately fails and returns execution to the actor (rather than blocking execution until the entry is released and the attempt succeeds).

Reviewer: Interesting - that's fine, but I would recommend clarifying this behavior before the first use.

Reviewer 2: Just to be super clear, there is no locking in JS.
Or, this kind of operation is atomic.

Author: I've updated the wording to use "atomic" for clarity.
